---
layout: post
title: ACL2020 Presentations' rehearsal.
---
**When**:  Wednesday 10th of June, 9:00 AM

**Where**: Meet, check the address in the Google Calendar Event.

**Topic**: Rehearsal of ACL2020 presentations.

**Speakers**: 
[Agostina Calabrese](https://twitter.com/agostina_cal), 
[Federico Scozzafava](https://twitter.com/FScozzafava),
[Michele Bevilacqua](https://twitter.com/MicheleBevila20), and 
[Tommaso Pasini](https://twitter.com/pasini_t)


### Papers' Abstracts
#### *Fatality* Killed the *Cat* or: BabelPic, a Multimodal Dataset for Non-Concrete Concepts

Thanks to the wealth of high-quality annotated images available in popular repositories such as ImageNet, 
multimodal language-vision re- search is in full bloom. However, events, feel- ings and many other kinds of concepts
which can be visually grounded are not well repre- sented in current datasets. Nevertheless, we would expect a 
wide-coverage language un- derstanding system to be able to classify images depicting RECESS and REMORSE, 
not just CATS, DOGS and BRIDGES. We fill this gap by presenting BabelPic, a hand-labeled dataset built by 
cleaning the image-synset association found within the BabelNet Lexical Knowledge Base (LKB). 
BabelPic explicitly targets non- concrete concepts, thus providing refreshing new data for the community. 
We also show that pre-trained language-vision systems can be used to further expand the resource by exploiting 
natural language knowledge available in the LKB.

#### Personalized PageRank with Syntagmatic Information for Multilingual Word Sense Disambiguation
Exploiting syntagmatic information is an encouraging research focus to be pursued in an effort to close the gap 
between knowledge-based and supervised Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) performance. We follow this direction in our 
next-generation knowledge-based WSD system, SyntagRank, which we make available via a Web in- terface and a RESTful 
API. SyntagRank leverages the disambiguated pairs of co- occurring words included in SyntagNet, a lexical-semantic 
combination resource, to perform state-of-the-art knowledge-based WSD in a multilingual setting. Our service 
provides both a user-friendly interface, available at [http://syntagnet.org/](http://syntagnet.org/), and a RESTful endpoint to query the 
system programmatically (accessible at [http://api.syntagnet.org/](http://api.syntagnet.org/)).

#### Breaking Through the 80% Glass Ceiling: Raising the State of the Art in Word Sense Disambiguation by Incorporating Knowledge Graph Information
Neural architectures are the current state of the art in Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD). However, they make 
limited use of the vast amount of relational information encoded in Lexical Knowledge Bases (LKB). We present 
Enhanced WSD Integrating Synset Embed-dings and Relations (EWISER), a neural supervised architecture that is able 
to tap into this wealth of knowledge by embedding information from the LKB graph within the neural architecture, 
and to exploit pretrained synset embeddings, enabling the network to predict synsets that are not in the training
set. As a result , we set a new state of the art on almost all the evaluation settings considered, also breaking 
through, for the first time, the 80% ceiling on the concatenation of all the standard all-words English WSD 
evaluation benchmarks. On multilingual all-words WSD, we report state-of-the-art results by training on nothing but 
English.

#### CluBERT: A Cluster-Based Approach for Learning Sense Distributions in Multiple Languages
Knowing the Most Frequent Sense (MFS) of a word has been proved to help Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) 
models significantly. However, the scarcity of sense-annotated data makes it difficult to induce a reliable
and high-coverage distribution of the meanings in a language vocabulary. To address this issue, in this paper we 
present CluBERT, an automatic and multilingual approach for inducing the distributions of word senses from a 
corpus of raw sentences. Our experiments show that CluBERT learns distributions over English senses that are of 
higher quality than those extracted by alternative approaches. When used to induce the MFS of a lemma, CluBERT 
attains state-of-the-art results on the English Word Sense Disambiguation tasks and helps to improve the 
disambiguation performance of two off-the-shelf WSD models. Moreover, our distributions also prove to be effective 
in other languages, beating all their alternatives for computing the MFS on the multilingual WSD tasks. We release 
our sense distributions in five different languages at [https://github.com/SapienzaNLP/clubert](https://github.com/SapienzaNLP/clubert).

### Questioners:
- Michele
- Tommaso
- Bianca